For example, food which is high in carbohydrates can make us feel more relaxed. It also makes us feel happy. Research
has shown that people on diets often begin to feel a little depressed after two weeks because they are eating fewer
carbohydrates. On the other hand, food which is rich in protein makes us feel awake and focused. Research has shown
that schoolchildren who eat a high-protein breakfast often do better at school than children whose breakfast is lower
in protein. Also, eating the right kind of meal at lunchtime can make a difference if you have an exam in the afternoon
or a business meeting where you need to make some quick decisions. In an experiment for a BBC TV programme two chess
players. both former British champions, had different meals before playing each other. Paul had a plate of prosciutto
and salad (full of protein from the red meat), and his opponent Terry had pasta with a creamy sauce (full of
carbohydrate). In the chess match Terry felt sleepy, and took much longer than Paul to make decisions about what moves
to make. The experiment was repeated several times with the same result. Another powerful mood food could become
a secret weapon in th e fight against crime. In Bournemouth in the south of England, where late-night violence can be
a problem, some nightclub owners have come up with a solution. They give t heir clients free chocolate at th e end
of the night. The results have been dramatic, with a 60% reduction in violent incidents. Why does chocolate make people
less aggressive? First , it causes the brain to release feel-good chemicals called endorphins. It also contains a lot
of sugar, which gives you energy, and can help stop late-night tired ness turning into aggression. These two things,
together with a delicious taste, make chocolate a powerful mood changer.
The first big difference between Java NIO and IO is that IO is stream oriented, where NIO is buffer oriented. So, what
does that mean?
Java IO being stream oriented means that you read one or more bytes at a time, from a stream. What you do with the read
bytes is up to you. They are not cached anywhere. Furthermore, you cannot move forth and back in the data in a stream.
If you need to move forth and back in the data read from a stream, you will need to cache it in a buffer first.
Java NIO's buffer oriented approach is slightly different. Data is read into a buffer from which it is later processed.
You can move forth and back in the buffer as you need to. This gives you a bit more flexibility during processing.
However, you also need to check if the buffer contains all the data you need in order to fully process it. And, you
need to make sure that when reading more data into the buffer, you do not overwrite data in the buffer you have not yet
processed.